Nadir Altimeter in Low Resolution Mode for sea-ice tutorial
===========================================================

more info, see Larue et al 2021,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2021.112534

**Goal**: - Simulate altimeter waveform - Output where contributions are
coming from (surface vs interfaces vs volume) - Include interface
roughness

**Learning**:

This tutorial will help you use the following modules -
nadir_lrm_altimetry solver - interface.geometrical_optics_backscatter
module - altimeter_list sensors

First, we import the necessary modules

.. code:: ipython3

    # Standard imports
    import numpy as np
    import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
    from copy import deepcopy
    
    from smrt import make_snowpack, make_ice_column, make_model, make_interface, PSU
    from smrt.inputs import altimeter_list
    
    from smrt.permittivity.saline_snow import saline_snow_permittivity_scharien_with_stogryn95 as ssp


Let’s create a two layer snowpack on top of a sea ice layer
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

We’ll allow the snow to be saline and use the Scharien permittivity
formulation imported as ssp above. This is because the SMRT default
permittivity for snow (wetice_permittivity_bohren83) doesn’t depend on
salinity.

Salinity can also specified using PSU unit (4 \* PSU). Dont forget to
import PSU unit from globalconstant. (see above)

As we have not yet specified the interfaces, all interfaces are assumed
to be flat.

.. code:: ipython3

    # specified ice permittivity model of snow with ssp
    snow = make_snowpack(thickness=[0.1, 0.2], microstructure_model='exponential',
                         ice_permittivity_model=ssp,density=[300, 350], 
                         corr_length=0.5e-4, temperature=260, salinity=[0.001, 0.006] )
    
    #specfied ice type (firstyear or multiyear)
    ice = make_ice_column(ice_type='firstyear',
                        thickness=[2], temperature=260, 
                        microstructure_model='independent_sphere',
                        radius=1e-3,
                        brine_inclusion_shape='spheres',
                        density=910,
                        salinity=8*PSU,
                        add_water_substrate=True)
    
    medium = snow + ice

Specify sensor
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

There are a number of altimeter sensors in altimeter_list. We’ll use
CryoSat-2 in SIN mode.

.. code:: ipython3

    sensor = altimeter_list.cryosat2_sin()

Configure SMRT model
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Use the Improved Born Approximation electromagnetic model and the LRM
altimeter solver

.. code:: ipython3

    altimodel = make_model("iba", "nadir_lrm_altimetry")

Run SMRT
~~~~~~~~

and plot altimeter waveform

.. code:: ipython3

    result = altimodel.run(sensor, medium)

.. code:: ipython3

    plt.close()
    fig, ax = plt.subplots(nrows=1, ncols=1, figsize=(10,6))
    
    #time is in nano seconds, 1 bins = 3.125 ns for Cryosat. Check other sensor specs in altimeter_list
    ax.plot(result.t_gate*1e9, result.sigma(), 'k--')
    
    ax.set_xlabel('Time (ns)', size = 15)
    ax.set_ylabel('Backscatter ($\sigma⁰$)', size = 15)
    plt.tight_layout()

The initial sharp rise is called the leading edge, and is often used as
the basis for retracker algorithms to calculate the ice freeboard. The
descending curve is the trailing edge.

Let’s see where the radar echo is coming from. For this, we’ll need to
specify a radiative transfer option when configuring SMRT to keep track
of the contributions.

.. code:: ipython3

    altimodel_with_returns = make_model("iba", "nadir_lrm_altimetry", rtsolver_options=dict(return_contributions=True))

Re-run the model and replot the graph showing individual contributions
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. code:: ipython3

    result_with_returns = altimodel_with_returns.run(sensor, medium)

.. code:: ipython3

    #show results in xarray format for more details. See the "contribution" dimension.
    result_with_returns.sigma()

.. code:: ipython3

    plt.close()
    fig, ax = plt.subplots(nrows=1, ncols=1, figsize=(10,6))
    
    ax.plot(result_with_returns.t_gate*1e9, result_with_returns.sigma(contribution='total'), 'k-', linewidth=5, label='Total')
    ax.plot(result_with_returns.t_gate*1e9, result_with_returns.sigma(contribution='interfaces'), 'b+-', label='Interfaces')
    ax.plot(result_with_returns.t_gate*1e9, result_with_returns.sigma(contribution='surface'), 'c-', linewidth=3, label='Surface')
    ax.plot(result_with_returns.t_gate*1e9, result_with_returns.sigma(contribution='volume'), 'm--', linewidth=3, label='Volume')
    
    ax.legend()
    ax.set_xlabel('Time (ns)', size = 15)
    ax.set_ylabel('Backscatter ($\sigma⁰$)', size = 15)
    plt.tight_layout()

Here, all interfaces are smooth and the signal is coming from volume
scattering in the snow. Surfaces are rarely smooth though….

Image below is from the AKROSS field campaign, showing roughness in both
the surface and the underlying sea ice.

.. code:: ipython3

    # import image module
    from IPython.display import Image
      
    # get the image
    Image(url="IMG_1682.JPG", width=500, height=300)

Add in a rough interface at the snow surface
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

For now, this will be the Geometrical Optics model

.. code:: ipython3

    rough_interface = make_interface("geometrical_optics_backscatter", mean_square_slope=0.03)
    
    #surface parameter can be use in make_snowpack to define the surface interface
    rough_snow = make_snowpack(thickness=[0.1, 0.2], microstructure_model='exponential',
                         ice_permittivity_model=ssp,density=[300, 350], 
                         corr_length=0.5e-4, temperature=260, salinity=[0.01, 0.06],
                         surface=rough_interface)
    
    rough_surface_medium = rough_snow + ice

Run the model and see what this does to the return contribution

.. code:: ipython3

    rough_surf_result_with_returns = altimodel_with_returns.run(sensor, rough_surface_medium)
    #warning when using geo optic... because of incident angle = 0 for altimeter, Ignore warning...

.. code:: ipython3

    plt.close()
    fig, ax = plt.subplots(nrows=1, ncols=1, figsize=(10,6))
    
    ax.plot(rough_surf_result_with_returns.t_gate*1e9, rough_surf_result_with_returns.sigma(contribution='total'), 'k-', linewidth=5, label='Total')
    ax.plot(rough_surf_result_with_returns.t_gate*1e9, rough_surf_result_with_returns.sigma(contribution='interfaces'), 'b+-', label='Interfaces')
    ax.plot(rough_surf_result_with_returns.t_gate*1e9, rough_surf_result_with_returns.sigma(contribution='surface'), 'c-', linewidth=3, label='Surface')
    ax.plot(rough_surf_result_with_returns.t_gate*1e9, rough_surf_result_with_returns.sigma(contribution='volume'), 'm--', linewidth=3, label='Volume')
    
    ax.legend()
    ax.set_xlabel('Time (ns)', size = 15)
    ax.set_ylabel('Backscatter ($\sigma⁰$)', size = 15)
    plt.tight_layout()

The return is now dominated by the surface. The return from volume
scattering is still of a similar order of magnitude as the previous
smooth surface simulation - you can see this by printing out the largest
amplitude of returns from the surface, there’s just much more from the
rough surface.

.. code:: ipython3

    # Print out and compare results
    max(result_with_returns.sigma(contribution='volume')).values, max(rough_surf_result_with_returns.sigma(contribution='volume')).values

If you want to check how the medium is parameterised you can just print
it out and look at the properties!

.. code:: ipython3

    rough_surface_medium

Make internal rough surface
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can just copy the snowpack and substitute one of the interfaces for
a rough one. We’ll use the rough interface that we have already made and
put it at the bottom of the medium. Interfaces, as with layers, are
numbered from 0 at the top (-1 just references the last one). Interface
index refer to the top interface of the layer index

.. code:: ipython3

    interface_snow = deepcopy(snow)
    #adding snow and ice together
    rough_base_medium = interface_snow + ice
    #set rough sea ice interface
    #by having snow and ice together the last interface becomes the sea ice surface.
    rough_base_medium.interfaces[-1] = rough_interface

.. code:: ipython3

    rough_base_result_with_returns = altimodel_with_returns.run(sensor, rough_base_medium)

.. code:: ipython3

    plt.close()
    fig, ax = plt.subplots(nrows=1, ncols=1, figsize=(10,6))
    
    ax.plot(rough_base_result_with_returns.t_gate*1e9, rough_base_result_with_returns.sigma(contribution='total'), 'k-', linewidth=5, label='Total')
    ax.plot(rough_base_result_with_returns.t_gate*1e9, rough_base_result_with_returns.sigma(contribution='interfaces'), 'b+-', label='Interfaces')
    ax.plot(rough_base_result_with_returns.t_gate*1e9, rough_base_result_with_returns.sigma(contribution='surface'), 'c-', linewidth=3, label='Surface')
    ax.plot(rough_base_result_with_returns.t_gate*1e9, rough_base_result_with_returns.sigma(contribution='volume'), 'm--', linewidth=3, label='Volume')
    
    ax.legend()
    ax.set_xlabel('Time (ns)', size = 15)
    ax.set_ylabel('Backscatter ($\sigma⁰$)', size = 15)
    plt.tight_layout()

Now the altimeter waveform is dominated by scattering from the
interfaces i.e. the snow-sea ice interface.

Further investigations
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

1. Increase the number of layers in the snowpack and see what happens
   when you put a rough interface between snow layers

2. Try re-running the simulations with an airborne sensor e.g. importing
   the asiras_lam from altimeter_list. How does the waveform change?

3. Look at the IEM roughness model - where might you use IEM instead of
   the Geometrical Optics model (tip: frequency)

4. How does the waveform change with snow salinity?


